Now let's go ahead and create the entire CIC,
the pipeline and learn how
the technologies that we have introduced so far work with each other.
So for this part of the lesson,
I'm going to spin up an AWS instance.
I'm also going to create a Docker image,
I'm going to have the jenkins pipeline setup and in order to start the pipeline,
we will have a trigger set from a Git commit.
Let's see how they work together.
Let's start with the first step which is spinning up an AWS Instance.
The screen you see right now is my account where I have an Instance running.
However, I'm going to start with a brand new Instance.
For doing that, all you have to do is login to
your AWS account which is nothing but aws.amazon.com,
and you go into My Account.
You should have a sign-in option.
So you can go ahead and sign into it.
I'm already logged in.
So I would be on the screen.
Once you have logged in,
you can go to the Launch instance section and click on this drop-down,
which gives you the option of Launch instance which is going to spin up an AWS Instance.
Now, here, you would have multiple options.
So you have Amazon Linux,
Linux was at this configuration and Red Hat and several other options.
Since I'm trying to keep it in the free tier,
I'm going to take a look at the free tier eligible options.
My choice amongst the options available here is Amazon Linux AMI 2018.03.0.
The reason why I chose this particular configuration is because
this repository includes Docker.
So let me choose this.
I'm going to keep it to the default,
which is general purpose T2 micro and I'm going to click ''Configure Instance''.
So here I'm going to stick to the default
again which is at the Configure Instance Details,
I am going to click the next option and I'm going to stick to the default again,
and I'm going to collect these options which is our tags.
I'm going to keep the default.
In this section, I'm going to create a security group.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a new rule,
and I'm going to keep accustomed TCP.
The port that I'm going to add is going to be
8080 and I'm going to keep the rest of the options as default.
Next, I'm going to click ''Review Launch''.
So I have kept everything as default and I'm going to keep
the custom TCP rule with the port range of 8080
since Jenkins needs that and I'm going to Launch this.
On clicking Launch, it gives me an option to choose
a key pair and I'm going to create a new key pair.
Let me name this as jenkins.
So now I have the pem file and then I'm going to launch it.
So now it gives me this success message which says your instance is now launching.
Once this is up and running,
I'll be able to see the launched instance on my admin page.
So the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to give
more permissions to this file that I just downloaded for my key pair.
Let me go ahead and do that, and this has downloaded to my downloads.
So I'm going to open a new window here.
So this is the file that I'm trying to give permissions to.
I am going to do that right now.
So now I'm going to login to the AWS Instance and that would have started already.
Let me go ahead and check that.
So on this screen, as you see,
it says there's a falling Instance launches had been initiated and that is the Instance.
You can take a look at the launched logs as well.
I'm going to take a look at all the Instances.
Now, I have the Instance that I was trying to run before and it still says initializing.
However, I will be able to login to this.
So I have this IP and there are various ways I can connect to this.
In order to connect to this Instance,
I could use any of these options.
Since I have already given the permission to
this file that I just downloaded and it clearly mentioned it over here,
I'm going to have this command run
to connect to this particular Instance which I have running.
So I just copied it.
So now I'm logged into the AWS Instance that I just started.
What I'm going to do next is I'm going to install Docker here.
So the command to do that is yum install Docker.
This just informs me that this is
the total download size and the installed size and do I think it's okay.
So I'm going to allow it.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a user group to Docker.
So this is the command to add a user group to Docker..
The next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going
to log out of this machine or this Instance and then I'm going to log back in.
So let's go to the Instance that is
running and I'm going to click ''Connect'' again and I'm going to repeat
the same step which is copy this particular command and run that.
So now I'm logged into the same Instance again.
I'm ready to start Docker here.
So the next instruction that I'm going to add here is going to be also available to you.
I'm going to add that right now.
So what this would do is it would run the Docker image.
So what it provided to me right now is the container ID for the Docker image.
So next what I'm going to do is I'm going to open a shell into jenkins
and to do that I'm going to run this command.
Now that I am there,
I'm going to install Maven here.
So the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to generate SSH keys,
and I'm not entering any passphrase.
So this created my SSH keys at root.
This successfully created my public and private key and they are now
stored in my SSH folder.
Let's go ahead and now go to the running instance of Jenkins.
What I would do now is I'm going to go to the AWS instance,
and I'm going to 8080 port where I have Jenkins running,
and I am going to now add the password,
and it gives you instructions of where the password store.
So I'm going to copy the path and go to
the folder and copy out this password and add it here.
This gives me an option to install
all the suggested plugins which I'm going to say yes to.
So as you see this gives me an option to install Git plug-in as well.
There are several other plugins that it installs by default.
Let's wait until it finishes installation.
I'm now going to create an admin.
So it gave me the Jenkins URL and now I'm going to save and finish.
Okay. So now this is the screen,
the welcome screen for Jenkins and we will go over the configurations over here.
But the first thing that I needed to take a look at is the credentials.
So what I'm going to do is now I'm going to set a global credentials.
So what do you need to do is I clicked on credentials,
I'd go to global and adding some credentials.
So here what I'm going to do is I'm going to look
at the kind and this gives me an option to
SSH username with private key which is what I'm going to choose right now.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a private key here.
I clicked on enter directly and clicked on add and I picked up the private key from here.
So I have copied this.
Now I'm going to add this here.
So I'm just going to add a username.
So this successfully created my global credential.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to add the public key onto my Git repository.
Let me show you how to do that.
So here I have my Git repository,
and here I would add my public key.
What we're going to do next is you're going to
choose an application that you're going to deploy to Cloud.
So for that you can either take the e-commerce application that we
build or you may choose to use any of
the applications that you must have built through this entire course.
I leave that option up to you.
But for this particular lesson I'm going to deploy the e-commerce application.
So in order to add the public key,
I would go to settings,
and I'm going to click Deploy keys option here.
As you see I already have two keys deployed.
I'm going to add one more key right now and let me just name it
Jenkins demo and I will pick up the public key right now.
So I'm going to cap the public key and copy the public key out,
and I'm going to paste that into the key section.
Make sure that you allow write access to it.
So I've successfully deployed the key now.
So the entire pipeline is set up.
So now that the entire pipeline is set up,
let me go ahead and configure the project at Jenkins.
So now this is the part where I'm going to create a new job
for Jenkins and I'm going to click on this option,
please create this, and I'm going to choose a Freestyle project option.
For this particular project I'm going to name it project demo and I click okay.
So this is the configuration for Jenkins,
and it has all these options which you
could go through in order to understand what different functionalities it offers.
Since we used Git,
I'm going to choose the Git option,
and I'm going to add the repository URL over here and the credentials,
and that would set up the Git linking here.
The other thing that I need to do after that is choose
the branch that I want to run the build on.
So let me go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to go to the Git repository,
and I'm going to copy this,
and now I'm going to add the repository URL that I just copied,
and I would add the key.
So if you had a problem here,
it would throw some error in red.
However, if it was successful,
it will not show any error.
Now what I want to do is I do not want to run this from
master or what I want to do is I want to run this from a different branch.
So I'm going to choose a different branch now.
So this is basically going to set up the Jenkins pipeline for that particular branch.
So what I'm going to do next is I'm going to add the palm location at the build step.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to choose the palm location
now so my palm is a specific project.
So now I have chosen the exact path for my palm and I'm going to save this,
and this configuration is complete for me.
What I would do now is trigger a build
and see if it gives me an error or it builds successfully.
So to do that,
what I have to do is click on this build now option.
So this give me an error.
Let's go check it out and see what was the error.
So it's some part of the build, download from central.
So the error here says no goals had been specified
for this build and it also gives you an information about that.
Let's go ahead and fix that.
In order to do that,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to set the goals.
So for that let's go to configure again and as you see,
I've already fixed it,
but let me just show you what the fix was.
So the goals is available at the pack,
the build level, so we finished adding
the palm and what I had missed was adding the goals here.
So I added that best package over here,
and I saved it,
and then when I go ahead and trigger another build,
it goes through the entire process of building,
and let's trace the logs now.
So this time the build was successful.
Now this means that every time now I make some commits or some changes to my fork,
and then I merge it into the master,
it will trigger an automatic build that is going to be triggering this Jenkins pipeline.
So that's it for Jenkins.